---
layout: post
title: Group Utility
excerpt: What do we bring to the table of different PvE content
date: 2018-10-12 09:00:00
author: Bloodmallet(EU)
---

Greetings fellow Elemental Shaman players,

this post will list all the utility we bring to any group and some base thoughts about them.

### Shaman spells
 - {{ site.data.spell.astral_recall }}
  > You can escape more often from bad groups. But seriously. This spell offers no utility to any group play.
 - {{ site.data.spell.capacitor_totem }}
  > Control. Valuable AoE stun. The 2 second delay can make this a tricky ability to use.
 - {{ site.data.spell.cleanse_spirit }}
  > Counter. Dispel a curse. Valuable to be able to do it, but not game breaking. Curses are not really "bad" anymore.
 - {{ site.data.spell.earthbind_totem }}
  > Control. AoE slow. Offers control, but costs a GCD. Its short CD makes it quite versatile. But who is kiting stuff constantly and keep a Elemental Shaman in the group? We're useless if we have to move constantly.
 - {{ site.data.spell.ee }}
  > Control. AoE taunt. Valuable to offtank some things or to prevent a wipe. Otherwise useless and it not being controllable makes this CD unpredictable. Can save your group from a trash wipe, or pulls more to ensure your death.
 - {{ site.data.spell.far_sight }}
  > Seriously...
 - {{ site.data.spell.healing_surge }}
  > You can top yourself if you're split from your healer. In these cases you usually either intend to get back to the group anyway (which is delayed by healing yourself) or you frantically try to keep someone alive because not enough heals are ready. But because you stop dealing damage to do so, this is usually not what you're there for.
 - {{ site.data.spell.hex }}
  > Control. Slightly sturdy single target CC. Useful if a dot is present. Downsides: 30y range and the aggro radius is **NOT** reduced.
 - {{ site.data.spell.purge }}
  > Counter. Very useful offensive magic effect dispel. No CD. Spamable until out of mana. Downside: one target at a time, you don't do anything for your main job while dispelling (dps)
 - {{ site.data.spell.tremor_totem }}
  > Counter-Counter. Sounds useful, is useful, but Fear is usually only used as a punishing mechanic if players screwed something up. So...we have a tool to mitigate situations that shouldn't occur. Doesn't prevent the application of let's say fears, so every char will still be interrupted, repositioned and turned into a random direction.
 - {{ site.data.spell.wind_shear }}
  > Counter. Very strong short term interrupt. 30y range. You interrupt yourself to use it. You don't do your primary job (dps) while interrupting.
 - {{ site.data.spell.water_walking }}
  > Who needs this?
 - talent: {{ site.data.talent.wind_rush_totem }}
  > AoE run speed buff on a long timer. Very very niche and overall not as useful as you might think.

### Elemental Shaman spells
 - {{ site.data.spell.eq }}
  > Control. One knock-down per target is very strong and provides quite the dmg relieve on the tank. Positioning is important and any form of kiting hurts this ability a lot.
 - talent: {{ site.data.talent.pe }}
  > Control. Provides a Stun with the {{ site.data.spell.ee }}. Usually unusable due to {{ site.data.spell.ee }} taunting everything and wiggling around, endangering any positioning.


### Table of usefulness

The following table shows my take on how useful the previously described utility is in these circumstances. Please be aware that for example {{ site.data.talent.pe }} only evaluates the additional single target stun, not the additional defensive as this is not group utility.

- o...not useful
- s...under special circumstances useful
- x...useful
- ?...questionable

Spell | Dungeons | Raid | World Content
--- | --- | --- | ---
{{ site.data.spell.astral_recall }} | o | o | x
{{ site.data.spell.capacitor_totem }} | x | x | x
{{ site.data.spell.cleanse_spirit }} | x | o | o
{{ site.data.spell.earthbind_totem }} | x | o | x
{{ site.data.spell.ee }} | s | o | x
{{ site.data.spell.far_sight }} | o | o | ?
{{ site.data.spell.healing_surge }} | x | x | x
{{ site.data.spell.hex }} | s-x | x | x
{{ site.data.spell.purge }} | x | x | x
{{ site.data.spell.tremor_totem }} | ? | ? | ?
{{ site.data.spell.wind_shear }} | x | x | x
{{ site.data.talent.wind_rush_totem }} | ? | o | o
{{ site.data.spell.water_walking }} | o | o | x
{{ site.data.spell.eq }} | x | o* | x
{{ site.data.talent.pe }} | o | o | o

\* {{ site.data.spell.eq }} is usually not needed to relieve the tank from some damage in a raid.


### Final Words

As you can see the Shaman class has a lot to offer for Dungeons. While our tools are useful for some Raidevents they are usually surpassed by other specs tools or are already provided by a present Restoration Shaman. Our sole unique Elemental utility {{ site.data.spell.eq }} is widely undervalued for m+ and at the same time a lot less useful for Raids.

Multiple of our tools are counter-mechanics. But the strong drawback of not using offensive spells while applying these counter-mechanics weights heavily. This isn't noticeable if you {{ site.data.spell.hex }} once, but if it's your duty to constantly purge, interrupt, and decurse, it quickly ramps up to quite the significant loss.

Furthermore please note, that our less useful kit in Raids can be fully provided by all Shaman specs. And once you have one present adding the same control/counter again is much less valuable. There is just no incentive to get multiple Elemental Shamans, if one at all.

We're a swiss army knife. But sadly damage is not our fort.

Yours sincerely,
Bloodmallet(EU)
