---
layout: post
title: Storm, Earth, and Lava new Design and more
date: 2018-07-15 09:00:00
---
Greetings Elemental Shamans!

The Elements called for a new design and here it is! But wait, there is more!

As most members of SE&L have at least a basic programming background,
we're comfortable with github. Therefore we decided to switch away from
WordPress and instead embrace the possibilites of version control. In
addition we now have a public
[issue tracker](https://github.com/stormearthandlava/stormearthandlava.github.io/issues).

If something on any page seems wrong, broken or missing,
please notify us via one of the following channels:
- [discord]({{ site.discord_invite }})
- [twitter](https://twitter.com/StormEarthLava)
- [github issues](https://github.com/stormearthandlava/stormearthandlava.github.io/issues)

These links can be found in the footer of every page, too. Don't hesitate to
contact us.

### The future

Going forward, we want to continue providing excellent information for
Elemental Shamans. All important information is accessable via the top menu.
But keep an eye out for posts on the main page. There you will find helpful
or interesting information, that might be a bit more short-living. Let us know,
if you're interested in specific information bits, that would fit there.

### Patreon

If you ever wondered how much time goes into creating and maintaining this guide:
We don't know, because we don't clock it. We do what we do, because we love
to provide well founded information. If you consider our invested time worthy
of some support for the page or just because you think, we're cool, we're now
offering a way to support us via [Patreon](https://www.patreon.com/stormearthlava).
Rest assured, no content will be artificially delayed, excluded, or otherwise
gated. Patrons will receive some rewards, though. For further information
check out our Patron page.

Once again welcome to the refreshed design! We hope you enjoy your stay.

For the Elements!

Storm, Earth, and Lava Team
