---
layout: post
title: Elemental in 8.1 - preliminary thoughts
excerpt: A discussion about the latest Elemental Shaman blue post
date: 2018-09-18 09:00:00
author: slanderman
---

Earlier today we received some insight into Blizzard's plans for Elemental in Patch 8.1, and news that the PTR will be arriving soon (planned for Friday the 21st of Sept). This post will discuss each point briefly, with some more in-depth discussion and analysis to come when the PTR is available for play.

<div class="blizzard-post">
    <ul>
        <li>Shifted some damage from {{site.data.spell.es}} to {{site.data.spell.lb}}.</li>
        <ul>
            <li>Elemental Shaman is the only lightning based spell caster. However, over time, {{site.data.spell.lb}} has gone from being a significant portion of your total damage to one of your least damaging abilities. It should be a powerful and effective spell for you to cast, and not something that feels like a burden to your rotation. {{site.data.spell.es}} will still be your hardest hitting spell, but {{site.data.spell.lb}} should feel a bit better as part of your rotation.</li>
        </ul>
    </ul>
</div>

This particular change is subjective and centred on Blizzard's vision for the spec. There isn't much to comment on here, as it is best to form one's own opinion of whether the fantasy of being a lightning caster is important enough to warrant shifting our damage from our spender ({{site.data.spell.es}}) to our filler ({{site.data.spell.lb}}). A few gameplay implications of this change are: 
<ul>
<li>An increased relative power of talents that rely on {{site.data.spell.lb}} damage, such as {{site.data.talent.se}}, {{site.data.talent.tm}}, {{site.data.talent.sk}}.</li>
<li>An increased reliance on stationary damage versus movement, as giving {{site.data.spell.lb}} a higher percentage of our total damage will punish movement to some extent.</li>
</ul>

<hr>

<div class="blizzard-post">
    <ul>
        <li>{{site.data.spell.lvb}} has had its functionality changed behind the scenes to allow an in-flight {{site.data.spell.lvb}} to gain a guaranteed critical strike from a {{site.data.spell.fs}} cast after the {{site.data.spell.lvb}} has been cast.</li>
        <ul>
            <li>This change should help your initial spells cast against a monster, boss, enemy player, or whatever else feel much better. You can cast {{site.data.spell.lvb}} before combat, and when it finishes, cast {{site.data.spell.fs}}, and the {{site.data.spell.lvb}} will gain the critical strike benefit from your {{site.data.spell.fs}}.</li>
        </ul>
    </ul>
</div>

Allowing {{site.data.spell.lvb}} to be cast before {{site.data.spell.fs}} has some positive gameplay implications that Blizzard covered quite well here. As it seems the {{site.data.spell.fs}} and {{site.data.spell.lvb}} guaranteed crit linkage is something Blizzard wants to continue with, this change just helps with a bit of quality of life.

<hr>

<div class="blizzard-post">
    <ul>
        <li>The level 15 talent {{site.data.talent.eb}} will now always pick a different secondary stat buff when causing a {{site.data.spell.mastery}} proc.</li>
    </ul>
</div>

This is another quality of life change, but less noticeable. Currently the way {{site.data.talent.eb}} works is you gain a random secondary stat buff from the spell cast, and if you get a {{site.data.spell.mastery}} proc, it will grant you another buff. However, this buff can be the same you got from the initial cast, so the buff is simply overwritten (duration refreshed) with no benefit. With this change, you'll guarantee more value out of {{site.data.talent.eb}} {{site.data.spell.mastery}} procs.

<hr>

<div class="blizzard-post">
    <ul>
        <li>The level 30 talent {{site.data.talent.mote}} can now also benefit a Physical damage spell, allowing it to increase the damage of an {{site.data.spell.eq}}.</li>
        <li>The level 100 talent {{site.data.talent.sk}} now also increases the damage of your next two {{site.data.spell.lb}}s by 250% in addition to its existing effects. This damage bonus will also apply to the {{site.data.spell.mastery}} procs of {{site.data.spell.lb}} from {{site.data.talent.sk}}.</li>
        <ul>
            <li>The {{site.data.talent.mote}} and {{site.data.talent.sk}} changes are primarily to help keep balance between single target damage and area damage of the talent rows.  {{site.data.talent.mote}} will now affect your next {{site.data.spell.eq}} spell to keep the talent more competitive when dealing area damage, and {{site.data.talent.sk}} will grant you two really powerful {{site.data.spell.lb}} that also cause {{site.data.spell.mastery}} procs when fighting just a single target.</li>
        </ul>
    </ul>
</div>

First, the {{site.data.talent.mote}} change. This is a step in the right direction, but feels like we've only been given half of what is needed for this interaction between {{site.data.spell.lvb}} and {{site.data.spell.eq}} to be worthwhile. The introduction of {{site.data.spell.lvb}} into AOE is a great idea that will help to add complexity to our otherwise very simple AOE priority. However, this change alone does not solve the fact that we won't cast {{site.data.spell.lvb}} in AOE. With {{site.data.talent.mote}} being the only incentive, it's clear to see that {{site.data.spell.fs}} and {{site.data.spell.lvb}} casts will be hard pressed to compete with {{site.data.spell.cl}}. The {{site.data.spell.lava_surge}} mechanic is great, but with the cooldown on {{site.data.spell.fs}}, there's no real way to capitalise on this {{site.data.talent.mote}} change. This is compounded when considering the alternative talents in the same row: {{site.data.talent.afs}} and {{site.data.talent.tm}}, both of which have significant power in AOE.

As for {{site.data.talent.sk}}, the change is explained in the blue post. The most relevant situation where this is beneficial is in dungeons, where you want to take {{site.data.talent.sk}} for its AOE usage but still need to deal intermittent single target damage (bosses). Whether or not {{site.data.talent.ascendance}} can remain ahead in single target is dependent on the numbers, but this change should help with the loss of reliable ({{site.data.talent.up}}) and burst ({{site.data.talent.asc}}) single target damage when taking {{site.data.talent.sk}}.

<hr>

<div class="blizzard-post">
    <ul>
        <li>The level 15 talent {{site.data.talent.ee}} has been removed, and the level 90 talent {{site.data.talent.er}} has taken its place.</li>
    </ul>
</div>

A basic change that makes sense. {{site.data.talent.ee}} saw a few iterations in the Alpha/Beta, but the one that stuck never felt very engaging or impactful, especially for priority targeting. {{site.data.talent.er}} is a passive, so not much to say there.

<hr>

<div class="blizzard-post">
    <ul>
        <li>The level 60 talent {{site.data.talent.hv}} has been removed.</li>
    </ul>
</div>

{{site.data.talent.hv}} is a good example of negative change from Legion to BFA. It's a talent that exists solely to fill a spot on the tree, and its removal is welcomed. There's very little to consider about this, as the talent is entirely passive and uninteresting.


<hr>

<div class="blizzard-post">
    <ul>
        <li>New talent in the level 60 row: Call the Thunder</li>
        <ul>
            <li>Your maximum Maelstrom is increased by 30, and the Maelstrom cost of {{site.data.spell.es}} and {{site.data.spell.eq}} is reduced by 10.</li>
        </ul>
    </ul>
</div>

Once {{site.data.spell.es}} had its cost changed to a fixed 60 Maelstrom, a common complaint was that it felt like we could benefit a lot from having additional Maelstrom to pool two {{site.data.spell.es}} casts. This talent not only allows us to do that, but with a significant (30) Maelstrom buffer so we can continue to make priority choices for a few casts before deciding to dump Maelstrom on one (or two) {{site.data.spell.es}} casts. In the talent tree however, this talent feels out of place in the Level 60 row. If it instead switched places with {{site.data.talent.mote}}, it would result a better thematic and gameplay trade-off as the level 30 row would be more focused on Maelstrom generation/spending and the frequency of {{site.data.spell.es}} / {{site.data.spell.eq}} casts. This would require some adjustment to talents in the level 60 row so there's no clear best choice in every scenario between {{site.data.talent.mote}} and the two existing {{site.data.talent.se}} / {{site.data.talent.lmt}}.

<hr>

<div class="blizzard-post">
    <ul>
        <li>New talent in the level 90 row: Surge of Power</li>
        <ul>
            <li>{{site.data.spell.es}} also enhances your next spell:</li>
            <ul>
                <li>{{site.data.spell.fs}}: The next cast does not incur a cooldown.</li>
                <li>{{site.data.spell.lb}}: Your next 3 casts will cause an additional {{site.data.spell.mastery}} proc.</li>
                <li>{{site.data.spell.lvb}}: Reduces the cooldown of your {{site.data.spell.fe}} / {{site.data.talent.se}} by 6 sec.</li>
                <li>{{site.data.spell.frs}}: Roots the target in place for 6 sec.</li>
            </ul>
        </ul>
    </ul>
</div>

The best description of this new talent is Blackout Combo, but for Elemental. It looks a bit overwhelming at first, but there are clearly defined functions for each effect:

<ul>
    <li>{{site.data.spell.fs}} - this will be avoided most of the time, but it introduces room for multi-dotting in a scenario where you're going to be casting {{site.data.spell.es}} instead of {{site.data.spell.eq}}, such as spread multi-target fights. Generally though, you'll want to avoid triggering this effect. This seems like a weird way to address the {{site.data.spell.fs}} cooldown issue, but it's not an effective fix because there's a disconnect between balancing your desire for one more {{site.data.spell.fs}} and very tangible damage (from {{site.data.spell.lb}}) and benefit to your major cooldown ({{site.data.spell.fe}} cooldown reduction).</li>
    <li>{{site.data.spell.lb}} - until we get onto the PTR, we're not quite sure how this will interact with talents like {{site.data.talent.sk}}. One good way of looking at this effect is by considering it identical to the <a href="https://www.wowhead.com/spell=191861/power-of-the-maelstrom">Power of the Maelstrom</a> artifact trait from Legion.</li>
    <li>{{site.data.spell.lvb}} - this effect creates an anti-synergy with {{site.data.talent.mote}} without {{site.data.talent.eote}}. Consider a scenario where you have both Surge of Power and {{site.data.talent.mote}}; do you cast {{site.data.spell.lvb}} <span  markdown="1">*before* or *after*</span> {{site.data.spell.es}}? There's no clear correct gameplay decision here, and it will just rely on whatever turns out to be best in simulations. This issue would be addressed by Echo going baseline, a change that seems it would be unanimously positive in the community.</li>
</ul>
