---
layout: post
title: 10.1 change collection
#            dd/mm/yyyy
last_update: 02/04/2023 
excerpt: What changes for Elemental Shamans in 10.1?
# author: Bloodmallet(EU)
---
This post collects changes. It does not necessarily analyse them in depths.
It'll be regularly updated and should contain all changes to be expected to Elemental Shamans in the upcoming patch 10.1.
In case something is missing, please let us know.

## Tier 30
Source: [Blue Post](https://us.forums.blizzard.com/en/wow/t/feedback-class-sets-in-embers-of-neltharion/1545299) (2023-03-14)

- (2) Set Bonus: Gain Stormkeeper every 40 seconds.
- (4) Set Bonus: For 8 seconds after you consume Stormkeeper, your Lightning Bolt, Lava Burst, Icefury, and Frost Shock generate 100% more Maelstrom, and your Chain Lightning, Lava Beam, and Earthquake critical strike damage is increased by 20%.

> These bonuses support Lightning focused builds a lot more than Fire ones. Especially in mythic+ the two piece bonus will be noticeable.

## Deeply Rooted Elements
Source: [Blue Post](https://us.forums.blizzard.com/en/wow/t/dragonflight-embers-of-neltharion-ptr-development-notes/1541379/7) (2023-03-29)

- Deeply Rooted Elements should now activate more consistently for all specializations.

> To our current understanding the change results in each {{ site.data.spell.lava_burst }} cast to
> have an ever increasing chance to trigger {{ site.data.talent.ascendance }}.
> Starting with a double 0% chance then incrementing by 1% per try. This results in a chance chain of
> 0%, 0%, 1%, 2%, 3%, 4%,...
> This averages out to the same known 7% chance and uptime.
> It removes the probability of double procs (without {{ site.data.talent.further_beyond }}) and droughts.

## Flame Shock
Source: [Blue Post](https://us.forums.blizzard.com/en/wow/t/dragonflight-embers-of-neltharion-ptr-development-notes/1541379/4) (2023-03-14)

- Flame Shock’s dispel protection from Control of Lava (PvP Talent) is now a baseline part of Flame Shock.


## PvP
Source: [Blue Post](https://us.forums.blizzard.com/en/wow/t/dragonflight-embers-of-neltharion-ptr-development-notes/1541379/4) (2023-03-14)

- Stormkeeper increases Lightning Bolt damage by 30% for Elemental in PvP combat (was 115%).
- Casting Lightning Bolt with Surge of Power causes 1 additional Elemental Overload in PvP combat (was 2).
- Lightning Bolt damage increased by 53% for Elemental in PvP combat.
- Control of Lava (PvP Talent) has been removed.
- New Talent: Volcanic Surge – Increases the damage of Lightning Bolt, Chain Lightning, and Lava Burst by 20%. Lava Surge insteadreduces the cast time of your next Lightning Bolt, Chain Lightning, or Lava Burst by 25%, stacking up to 2 times.

Source: [Blue Post](https://us.forums.blizzard.com/en/wow/t/dragonflight-embers-of-neltharion-ptr-development-notes/1541379/6) (2023-03-22)

- New PvP Talent: Burrow – Burrow beneath the ground, becoming unattackable, removing movement impairing effects, and increasing your movement speed by 50% for 5 seconds. When the effect ends, enemies within 6 yards are knocked in the air and take Physical damage.
- New PvP Talent: Volcanic Surge – Increases the damage of Lightning Bolt, Chain Lightning, and Lava Burst by 20%. Lava Surge instead reduces the cast time of your next Lightning Bolt, Chain Lightning, or Lava Burst by 25%, stacking up to 2 times. Volcanic Surge now also increases the chance for Lava Surge to trigger by 100%.

Source: [Blue Post](https://us.forums.blizzard.com/en/wow/t/dragonflight-embers-of-neltharion-ptr-development-notes/1541379/7) (2023-03-29)

- Swelling Waves (PvP Talent) has been removed.
- Spectral Recovery (PvP Talent) has been removed.
