---
layout: post
title: 10.1 Changelog
#            dd/mm/yyyy
last_update: 02/04/2023 
excerpt: What changes for Elemental Shamans in 10.1?
# author: Bloodmallet(EU)
---
This post collects changes. It does not necessarily analyse them in depths.

## Tier 30
Source: [Blue Post](https://us.forums.blizzard.com/en/wow/t/feedback-class-sets-in-embers-of-neltharion/1545299)

> (2) Set Bonus: Gain Stormkeeper every 40 seconds.
>
> (4) Set Bonus: For 8 seconds after you consume Stormkeeper, your Lightning Bolt, Lava Burst, Icefury, and Frost Shock generate 100% more Maelstrom, and your Chain Lightning, Lava Beam, and Earthquake critical strike damage is increased by 20%.

These bonuses support Lightning focused builds a lot more than Fire ones. Especially in mythic+ the two piece bonus will be noticeable.

## Deeply Rooted Elements
Source: [Blue Post](https://us.forums.blizzard.com/en/wow/t/dragonflight-embers-of-neltharion-ptr-development-notes/1541379/7)

> - Deeply Rooted Elements should now activate more consistently for all specializations.

To our current understanding the change results in each {{ site.data.spell.lava_burst }} cast to
have an ever increasing chance to trigger {{ site.data.talent.ascendance }}.
Starting with a double 0% chance then incrementing by 1% per try. This results in a chance chain of
0%, 0%, 1%, 2%, 3%, 4%,...
This averages out to the same known 7% chance and uptime.
It removes the probability of double procs (without {{ site.data.talent.further_beyond }}) and droughts.

## Flame Shock
Source: [Blue Post](https://us.forums.blizzard.com/en/wow/t/dragonflight-embers-of-neltharion-ptr-development-notes/1541379/4)

>   - Flame Shock’s dispel protection from Control of Lava (PvP Talent) is now a baseline part of Flame Shock.


## PvP
Source: [Blue Post](https://us.forums.blizzard.com/en/wow/t/dragonflight-embers-of-neltharion-ptr-development-notes/1541379/4)

>   - Stormkeeper increases Lightning Bolt damage by 30% for Elemental in PvP combat (was 115%).
>   - Casting Lightning Bolt with Surge of Power causes 1 additional Elemental Overload in PvP combat (was 2).
>   - Lightning Bolt damage increased by 53% for Elemental in PvP combat.
>   - Control of Lava (PvP Talent) has been removed.
>   - New Talent: Volcanic Surge – Increases the damage of Lightning Bolt, Chain Lightning, and Lava Burst by 20%. Lava Surge insteadreduces the cast time of your next Lightning Bolt, Chain Lightning, or Lava Burst by 25%, stacking up to 2 times.

Source: [Blue Post](https://us.forums.blizzard.com/en/wow/t/dragonflight-embers-of-neltharion-ptr-development-notes/1541379/6)

> SHAMAN
>   - New PvP Talent: Burrow – Burrow beneath the ground, becoming unattackable, removing movement impairing effects, and increasing your movement speed by 50% for 5 seconds. When the effect ends, enemies within 6 yards are knocked in the air and take Physical damage.
>
> Elemental
>   - New PvP Talent: Volcanic Surge – Increases the damage of Lightning Bolt, Chain Lightning, and Lava Burst by 20%. Lava Surge instead reduces the cast time of your next Lightning Bolt, Chain Lightning, or Lava Burst by 25%, stacking up to 2 times. Volcanic Surge now also increases the chance for Lava Surge to trigger by 100%.

Source: [Blue Post](https://us.forums.blizzard.com/en/wow/t/dragonflight-embers-of-neltharion-ptr-development-notes/1541379/7)

> Swelling Waves (PvP Talent) has been removed.
> Spectral Recovery (PvP Talent) has been removed.
