---
layout: post
title: T31 Set Discussion
#            dd/mm/yyyy
last_update: 09/10/2023
excerpt: What does the new tier set do and how does it work?
author: Elivrio
toc: true
---

## T31 effects
> (2) Set Bonus: {{ site.data.talent.primordial_wave }} also casts an {{ site.data.talent.eb }} at the target at 100% effectiveness, and grants you all three {{ site.data.talent.eb }} bonus effects for 15.0 seconds.

> (4) Set Bonus: {{ site.data.spell.lvb }} burns your target for 15% additional damage over 4 seconds, and after consuming {{ site.data.talent.primordial_wave }}, your next 2 casts of {{ site.data.spell.lvb }} also hit up to 3 additional targets affected by your {{ site.data.spell.fs }} for 100% of normal damage.

First things first. Without being talented into {{ site.data.talent.primordial_wave }} these bonuses do nothing.
Which means, we're forced into taking this talent for the next tier.

The reworked 4p also puts all of its emphasis on {{ site.data.spell.lvb }}, killing the "weaving" we expected with the first iterations.

<hr>

## 2p
The additional damage from {{ site.data.talent.eb }} on {{ site.data.talent.primordial_wave }} is a great way to improve the immediate value and feel of the talent.
While applying {{ site.data.spell.fs }} is a good feature to have, adding the damage makes casting it so much more rewarding.

Furthermore this effect grants all three {{ site.data.talent.eb }} buffs. These present a sizeable chunk of stats.

The additional {{ site.data.talent.eb }} is cast for free. And there exist multiple talents triggered by casting {{ site.data.talent.eb }}.
Here is a table of them and whether they are triggered by the 2p effect.

Talent | 2p can trigger it
--- | ---
{{ site.data.talent.sop }} | ✅ yes
{{ site.data.talent.lr }} | ✅ yes
{{ site.data.talent.mwf }} | ✅ yes
{{ site.data.talent.fb }} | ✅ yes
{{ site.data.talent.wlr }} | ✅ yes

<hr>

## 4p

Any kind of weaving is now gone and you just want to press {{ site.data.spell.lvb }} all day everyday.

Concerning the burn added to {{ site.data.spell.lvb }}, {{ site.data.spell.t31_4 }}, it functions similarly to Mage's [ignite](https://www.wowhead.com/spell=12654/ignite). It stacks and extends itself if another {{ site.data.spell.lvb }} is used while the target is burning. That's pretty neat and you don't have to play around the debuff duration.

The recent changes to the 4p make {{ site.data.spell.lvb }} strong enough to warrant using it even when more than 4 targets are present.

<hr>

## Issues

#### Primordial Wave bugs
1. Using {{ site.data.talent.pw }} will always make your next 3 {{ site.data.spell.lvb }} hit additional targets, whether you have the 4p equipped or not.

#### 2p Bugs
1. The 15s {{ site.data.talent.eb }} buff you get from 2p gets overrides by any new {{ site.data.talent.eb }} cast.

<br>
#### 4p Bugs

1. Your main target is currently considered an "additional target" for the sake of the 4-piece bonus. This means that in Single Target, the first three {{ site.data.spell.lvb }} after each {{ site.data.talent.pw }} will be duplicated, with each being able to overload.
  - Compared to the wording of the tooltip, this is a bug.
  - It's potentially a huge issue as it double dips with all of our stuff, giving us a lot of {{ site.data.spell.t31_4 }} damage and {{ site.data.talent.pw }} CDR.
2. The first 3 {{ site.data.spell.lvb }} you cast after {{ site.data.talent.pw }} will also hit up to 3 additional targets. Currently, the "extra {{ site.data.spell.lvb }}" generated by the 4p are considered as coming from {{ site.data.talent.pw }}. It means that they overwrite/refresh the {{ site.data.talent.splinter }} buff if it's present.
3. The duplicate {{ site.data.spell.lvb }} generated by the 4-piece set bonus appear to still be dealing 80% damage from {{ site.data.talent.pw }}’s tooltip, rather than the expected 100% on the 4-piece tooltip.


<hr>

## Conclusion

With the recent change to {{ site.data.talent.splinter }}, Wildfire builds will be more palatable in ST. We also gain decent Cleave thanks to our 4p, allowing us to be a bit of everything with just fire builds.
The newly introduced cap to {{ site.data.talent.fb }} also limits the time we spend in Ascendance, making the gameplay less... single minded.

However, there's still a lot of bugs with the 4p that makes our Single target stronger than we expect it to be. If those bugs are fixed, we will get a lower frequency of cast on {{ site.data.talent.pw }} and a decent Single Target nerf. We can hope the correction will come with a needed compensation buff in that case.

Yours sincerely,<br/>
Elivrio (and not Bloodmallet)
