---
layout: post
title: Secret Techs 11.0.5
#            dd/mm/yyyy
last_update: 01/12/2024
excerpt: ""
author: Bloodmallet
toc: false
big_article: false
---
Greetings,

there are quite a few "hidden" techniques we can employ while playing Elemental
Shaman. One could also call them irregularities. Or bugs. Pick your fancy.

Some contribute damage. Some cost us. So here is an unordered list of things
you *can* be aware off.


## 📉 Buff consumption order of {{ site.data.spell.lvb }}

1. {{ site.data.spell.ancestral_swiftness }}
1. {{ site.data.spell.lava_surge }}

This means if you activate {{ site.data.spell.pwave }} with 
{{ site.data.spell.ancestral_swiftness }} at zero {{ site.data.spell.lvb }} 
charges, and then cast {{ site.data.spell.lvb }} you will cast an instant
{{ site.data.spell.lvb }} because of {{ site.data.spell.ancestral_swiftness }}
but the {{ site.data.spell.lava_surge }} will stick around and could
potentially get overwritten by a natural {{ site.data.spell.lava_surge }} proc.

**How to play around this?** Have 1 stack of {{ site.data.spell.lvb }} before
casting {{ site.data.spell.ancestral_swiftness }} and 
{{ site.data.spell.pwave }}. Because this could mean a dealy of the CDs, it's
not necessarily a gain to do so.


## 📈 Buff consumption order of {{ site.data.spell.lb }}

1. {{ site.data.spell.stormkeeper }}
1. {{ site.data.spell.arc_discharge }}

This means if you cast {{ site.data.spell.tempest }} into
{{ site.data.spell.lb }} or {{ site.data.spell.cl }} you'll cast the later
empowered by both buffs, BUT consume only {{ site.data.spell.stormkeeper }}.
Therefore your follow-up can be the same spell again, this time empowered only
by {{ site.data.spell.arc_discharge }}.

**How to play around this?** Try to combine {{ site.data.spell.stormkeeper }}
wit upcoming {{ site.data.spell.tempest }} casts without idling the CD too much.
It might be easier to sit on {{ site.data.spell.tempest }} for a short while 
instead. Otherwise, just know you've "won the game" if both effects line up
accidentally.


## 📉 Overloads and {{ site.data.spell.arc_discharge }}

Overloads aren't affected by {{ site.data.spell.arc_discharge }} unless you had
{{ site.data.spell.arc_discharge }} at 2 stacks when casting the spell.

Uh? Yes. If you have 2 stacks of {{ site.data.spell.arc_discharge }} and cast
2 {{ site.data.spell.lb }} then overloads of the first one will be affected by
{{ site.data.spell.arc_discharge }} but overloads of the second won't.

**How to play around this?** You don't.


## 📈 Double usage of {{ site.data.spell.storm_frenzy }}

If you have {{ site.data.spell.storm_frenzy }} once and cast two
{{ site.data.spell.lb }} or {{ site.data.spell.cl }} back to back both will 
have the reduced cast time.

**How to play around this?** Cast two {{ site.data.spell.lb }} or 
{{ site.data.spell.cl }} back to back. Sweet!


## 📉 Disappearing {{ site.data.spell.storm_frenzy }}

While casting a spender ususally grants {{ site.data.spell.storm_frenzy }} for
a follow-up cast, if said spender is an instant and the player cast a 
non-instant {{ site.data.spell.lb }} or {{ site.data.spell.cl }} beforehand,
then {{ site.data.spell.storm_frenzy }} disappears without buffing anything.

**How to play around this?** Don't hardcast {{ site.data.spell.lb }} or 
{{ site.data.spell.cl }} before spending Maelstrom with
{{ site.data.spell.es }} or {{ site.data.spell.eq }} or instant cast 
{{ site.data.spell.eb }} ({{ site.data.spell.natures_swiftness }} or 
{{ site.data.spell.ancestral_swiftness }}). Instead cast something like 
{{ site.data.spell.lvb }} beforehand.


continue here:

## 📈 Maximizing buff synergies

SK -> PWave -> Ascendance -> LvB


## Max-range PWave to get an ancestor cast


## LMT ancesors ?
