---
layout: post
title: Secret Techs 11.0.7
#            dd/mm/yyyy
last_update: 01/01/2025
excerpt: ""
author: Bloodmallet
toc: false
big_article: false
---
Greetings,

there are quite a few "hidden" techniques we can employ while playing Elemental
Shaman. One could also call them irregularities. Or bugs. Pick your fancy.

Some contribute damage. Some cost us. So here is an unordered list of things
you *can* be aware off.


## 📉 Buff consumption order of {{ site.data.spell.lvb }}

1. {{ site.data.spell.ancestral_swiftness }}
1. {{ site.data.spell.lava_surge }}

This means if you activate {{ site.data.spell.pwave }} with 
{{ site.data.spell.ancestral_swiftness }} at zero {{ site.data.spell.lvb }} 
charges, and then cast {{ site.data.spell.lvb }} you will cast an instant
{{ site.data.spell.lvb }} because of {{ site.data.spell.ancestral_swiftness }}
but the {{ site.data.spell.lava_surge }} will stick around and could
potentially get overwritten by a natural {{ site.data.spell.lava_surge }} proc.

**How to play around this?** Have 1 stack of {{ site.data.spell.lvb }} before
casting {{ site.data.spell.ancestral_swiftness }} and 
{{ site.data.spell.pwave }}. Because this could mean a dealy of the CDs, it's
not necessarily a gain to do so.


## 📈 Buff consumption order of {{ site.data.spell.lb }}

1. {{ site.data.spell.stormkeeper }}
1. {{ site.data.spell.arc_discharge }}

This means if you cast {{ site.data.spell.tempest }} into
{{ site.data.spell.lb }} or {{ site.data.spell.cl }} you'll cast the later
empowered by both buffs, BUT consume only {{ site.data.spell.stormkeeper }}.
Therefore your follow-up can be the same spell again, this time empowered only
by {{ site.data.spell.arc_discharge }}.

**How to play around this?** Try to combine {{ site.data.spell.stormkeeper }}
wit upcoming {{ site.data.spell.tempest }} casts without idling the CD too much.
It might be easier to sit on {{ site.data.spell.tempest }} for a short while 
instead. Otherwise, just know you've "won the game" if both effects line up
accidentally.


## 📉 Overloads and {{ site.data.spell.arc_discharge }}

Overloads aren't affected by {{ site.data.spell.arc_discharge }} unless you had
{{ site.data.spell.arc_discharge }} at 2 stacks when casting the spell.

Uh? Yes. If you have 2 stacks of {{ site.data.spell.arc_discharge }} and cast
2 {{ site.data.spell.lb }} then overloads of the first one will be affected by
{{ site.data.spell.arc_discharge }} but overloads of the second won't.

**How to play around this?** You don't.


## 📈 Double usage of {{ site.data.spell.storm_frenzy }}

If you have {{ site.data.spell.storm_frenzy }} once and cast two
{{ site.data.spell.lb }} or {{ site.data.spell.cl }} back to back both will 
have the reduced cast time.

**How to play around this?** Cast two {{ site.data.spell.lb }} or 
{{ site.data.spell.cl }} back to back. Sweet!


## 📉 Disappearing {{ site.data.spell.storm_frenzy }}

While casting a spender ususally grants {{ site.data.spell.storm_frenzy }} for
a follow-up cast, if said spender is an instant and the player cast a 
non-instant {{ site.data.spell.lb }} or {{ site.data.spell.cl }} beforehand,
then {{ site.data.spell.storm_frenzy }} disappears without buffing anything.

**How to play around this?** Don't hardcast {{ site.data.spell.lb }} or 
{{ site.data.spell.cl }} before spending Maelstrom with
{{ site.data.spell.es }} or {{ site.data.spell.eq }} or instant cast 
{{ site.data.spell.eb }} ({{ site.data.spell.natures_swiftness }} or 
{{ site.data.spell.ancestral_swiftness }}). Instead cast something like 
{{ site.data.spell.lvb }} beforehand.


continue here:

## 📈 Maximizing buff synergies

We finally have some burst again after years of a damage curve like this:

---

Nice! But we also have multiple buffs to juggle. Namely:
- {{ site.data.spell.asc }} our big CD
- {{ site.data.spell.sk }} our small CD
- {{ site.data.spell.pwave }} an optional additional CD
- {{ site.data.spell.se }} another long CD (some say there exists another
Elemental. Heretics!)

Each has a different duration and impact. Casting them in a wrong order will
waste parts of their uptime and therefore cost damage.

**How to play around this?** Cast them in the following order:
1. {{ site.data.spell.se }}
1. {{ site.data.spell.sk }}
1. {{ site.data.spell.pwave }}
1. {{ site.data.spell.asc }}
1. {{ site.data.spell.lvb }}, 'ere we go.


## 📈 Ancestor summon delay

Summoned ancestors have a delay before they start casting. Also to note:
Ancestors cast on player cast **hit**. Both effects in combination mean casting 
{{ site.data.spell.primordial_wave }} in close proximity to the target will hit
it before the delay is up resulting in no Ancestor casts.

**How to play around this?** Stand further away. Roughly at max range. If you
do so each active Ancestor will cast two of their Lava Bursts when 
{{ site.data.spell.primordial_wave }} hits. Why two? Because 
{{ site.data.spell.primordial_wave }} hits and a {{ site.data.spell.fs }} also
hits.


## 📈 Random {{ site.data.spell.lmt }} targets

{{ site.data.spell.lmt }} applies up to 3 {{ site.data.spell.fs }}s. Which
targets will get the dot is random. So when casting {{ site.data.spell.lmt }}
into {{ site.data.spell.pwave }} on a fresh spawn you need to quickly identify
a non-{{ site.data.spell.fs }} target to cast the later. Otherwise the
{{ site.data.spell.fs }} is "wasted" (overwritten instead of also active on
another target) and you lose out on another potential 4% haste from
{{ site.data.spell.splintered_elements }}.

**How to play around this?** Let the game figure it out. As long as 3 or more 
non-{{ site.data.spell.fs }} are around {{ site.data.spell.lmt }} will apply
its {{ site.data.spell.fs }}s to new targets. Therefore cast
{{ site.data.spell.pwave }} first, followed by {{ site.data.spell.lmt }}.
Continue with a {{ site.data.spell.lvb }} and you can enjoy 22% haste straight
away.

**Bonus points:** If you play Farseer casting {{ site.data.spell.pwave }} first
will also allow the summoned Ancestor to cast their Lava Burst at each
{{ site.data.spell.lmt }} applied {{ site.data.spell.fs }} target. It's 
*free damage*.

---

And that's it for now.

Yours sincerely,
Bloodmallet
